A modern twist on Shakespeare's Romeo and Juliet.
The whole book takes place around a school for Theatre and Music in Istanbul Turkey.
In this school cultures clash when Turkish faculty and students, meet the English/American faculty and students.

When one of the teachers, Michael, comes up with the idea to rewrite Shakespeare's Romeo and Juliet, for a schoolproduction by the end of the year, with all the apartments of this School of Arts working together.
As the play comes more and more along all the lives of the faculty and students are intertwined and beautiful stories arise in the beautiful scenary of Istanbul.

Quote from Istanbul days Istanbul nights:
So, Bekir says as Michael settles into a chair in his office, what is this idea you have?
Well we plan to do scenes from plays every semester from both the Turkish track students and the English track students but I'd also like to begin work on a large scale production to be done at the end of the year using both groups of students in a bi-lingual production, a musical, actually, with dance numbers, subtitles in both English and Turkish, a large cast, a full-blown production.
Do you think our students can do this?
Yes, Michael says. Since it'll be a bi-lingual production, we'll play to both their strenghts, and we can fully utilize Katja and her dancers.
What about the music?
There are many students here who play instruments and sing in our Music Department. We'll audition them and pick the best to be in our ochestra. And, of course, I hope to get much cooperation from Murat.
Bekir sits back and stares at Michael, a smile forming on his lips as he thinks this could be a great marketing and recruitment tool if succesfull. You think you can do this?
Yes, Michael says.
And what play will you use?
This, too, must be one of our own creation, Michael says. So I'm thinking of adapting Shakespeare's Romeo and Juliet.

Though the book starts of pretty chaotic because of the many characters and short scenes all the characters switch in, within one scene.
But when the book progresses the characters intertwine, they stay with the characters in the scenes longer, and that resembles clearity.
I find that Leonard Durso did a great job of character sketching in the beginning of the book, I hope he did it so you don't get totally lost, and I find he did a great job intertwining all the characters togehter and I couldn't find a mistake in it anywhere. And believe me, I kind of tried looking for one, for I really thought it would be difficult one to pull that of.
Overall I think the book is a must read, it is in interesting story in an interesting scenary, well written and with much knowledge and beautiful characters.
Only one fair warning though: The first to scenes look like they are a little chaotic , but after you'll get trough them I promise the story is great with plot twist I actually didn't see coming.

I hope you all will enjoy reading it as much as I have.