Liefhebber van quotes ! Spoiler alert op het einde !

Het laatste rijk is het eerste boek van Brandon Sanderson in de Mistborn triologie. Deze trilogie is volledig vertaald in het Nederlands. Zelf ben ik hem in het Engels aan het lezen.

Met zijn vlotte schrijfstijl wordt je zo het verhaal mee ingezogen. Binnen deze wonderlijke wereld, waar er bijna constant as uit de lucht komt neerdalen en de straten elke avond door dikke slierten mist bedekt worden, is het Laatste Rijk, Luthadel, een onheilspellende plek. De verslagenheid van de ska, de hebzucht van de edelen en de oproeping van de rebellen zijn voelbaar. De erstmagie wordt door Sanderson uitgebreid omschreven zodat je deze krachten en hun beperkingen voor je ogen kunt inbeelden. De personages maken geloofwaardige karakterontwikkelingen mee.

Een boek dat je in één adem wilt uitlezen door zijn goed uitgewerkt en spannend plot!
Ik kan niet wachten om verder te lezen in het vervolg, De Bron van Verheffing.

Zoals boven reeds vermeld ben ik een fan van quotes. Hieronder staan er alvast enkele (uhm), in het Engels natuurlijk :)

.
..
...
....
.....
......
.......
........
.........
..........


“The Hero of Ages shall not be a man, but a force. No nation may claim him, no woman shall keep him. He shall belong to none, not even himself.”

“You should try not to talk so much, friend. You'll sound far less stupid that way.”

“Belief isn't simply a thing for fair times and bright days...What is belief - what is faith - if you don't continue in it after failure?...Anyone can believe in someone, or something that always succeeds...But failure...ah, now, that is hard to believe in, certainly and truly. Difficult enough to have value. Sometimes we just have to wait long enough...then we find out why exactly it was that we kept believing...There's always another secret.”

“But you can't kill me, Lord Tyrant. I represent that one thing you've never been able to kill, no matter how hard you try. I am hope.”

“Men rarely see their own actions as unjustified.”

“Belief?"
"Yes," Sazed said. "Tell me, Mistress. What is it that you believe?"
Vin frowned. "What kind of question is that?"
"The most important kind, I think.”

“The right belief is like a good cloak, I think. If it fits you well, it keeps you warm and safe. The wrong fit however, can suffocate.”

“That’s the funny thing about arriving somewhere, Vin,” he said with a wink. “Once you’re there, the only thing you can really do is leave again.”

“If men should read these words, let them know that power is a heavy burden. Seek not to be bound by its chains.”

“I never wanted to be feared. If I regret one thing, it is the fear I have caused. Fear is the tool of tyrants. Unfortunately, when the fate of the world is in question, you use whatever tools are available.”

“Though most expect young men to be fools, I've noticed that just a little bit of age can make a man far more foolish than he was as a child.”

“I kind of lost track of time..." "For two hours?"Elend nodded sheepishly."There were books involved”

“You can't just avoid the game by saying you don't want to play.”

“Once, maybe I would have thought you a fool, but...well, that's kind of what trust is, isn't it? A willful self-delusion? You have to shut out that voice that whispers about betrayal, and just hope that your friends aren't going to hurt you.”