Gene’s life resembles a debutante’s dream. Yet she hides a secret that would see her stunned by the nobility. Gene is both male and female. Then she displays unwanted magical abilities – last seen in mysterious beings from an almost-forgotten age. Matters escalate further, so she flees home, dressed as a boy.
Reinvented as ‘Micah Grey’, Gene joins the circus. As an aerialist, she discovers the joy of flight – but the circus has a dark side.

Iphigenia is growing up as a young girl in one of the higher classes of Elada. Being treated as a girl, but feeling as a boy. It makes Iphigenia, who likes to be called Gene, having a much more complicated life than any other young girl OR boy around her.
One night, she finds out her already complicated life is a total lie. No other option than to flee home and wander around the streets as Micah Grey.
Eventually, Micah becomes part of the circus as an aerialist. Being the middle of pranks and spot at the beginning, he gradually gains the respect of the other artists.
But when everything finally seems to be in place, her past is catching up with him.

The story is told from the perspective of Iphigenia / Gene / Micah. Some chapters are set in the period before fleeing home; others are set after fleeing home and they are alternated in the whole book. This makes you getting to know the details of the whole story slowly and when most needed.

I have to admit, this book was a cover buy. But come on, the cover is beautiful (Yes, that’s my excuse)! The only sad thing is that you can easily see fingers on it .
Like I said, I intentionally just bought the book for its cover. So I had no clue what the book was about, what genre it was, .. No clue at all. Well, I figured that it had to have something to do with a circus because of the gorgeous design on the front.
But therefore I had no idea the story setting was a totally different world. And that was a bit confusing at the beginning. Once you get the structure of the new world, you’ll wish that world would exist in real life. Sadly, it doesn’t.

I absolutely loved and enjoyed reading Pantomime! Laura Lam has created fantasy, that’s written like I’ve never read before. I can’t wait to reenter the magical world of Micah Grey.

https://theworldofabookwormblog.wordpress.com/2017/04/02/review-pantomime-micah-grey-1-laura-lam/