**CONTAINS SMALL SPOILERS**

AIDAN. WTF. SOmEONE PLEASE DISCUSS THIS WItH ME PLeaSe??????????? Jxj1jdkwmfjejfjskdje ERROR.

Ok first of all, this is the best freakin thing i've ever read in my whole entire life, and then I mean this trilogy. I have never been so connected to characters and a story and a world before, noting that of course I am pretty new to the genre and to reading in general.. Aidan. Specially AIdan. God i wish that fucker was real because he is a monster but he is a damn fantastic one. If Aidan was a boy I'd smash, is that weird to say about an artificial intelligence?

Anyway, on to my review.

"Live a life worth dying for."

When i bought Illuminae years ago, I honestly just bought it because I became a book hoarder and was obsessed with the cover. Tried reading it back then but my English kind of sucked, so I didn't understand 99% of what i was reading, kind of logic when you come to think about the fact that it's a sci-fi and there are a lot of difficult words in there if English is not your native tongue. Years later, aka 2018, I picked it back up after i spend months in Ireland and became pretty damn fluent in the language, I tell you this: I was hooked from page 1.

Illuminae is and will always be the best one in the series, loved Gemina, and when I started Obsidio I was scared it wasn't going to be as good as the rest, and it took me half the book before I actually started to get into it. I guess it's because my relationship with our new charcaters wasn't as close as I had with Nik, Hannah, Kady and Ezra. AND AIDAN. Would it be weird to start an AIDAN fanpage? Probably.

“Would you kill one person to save one thousand? And by logical extension, would you not kill one thousand to save one-thousand-and-one?” - AIDAN

I think it was mostly the end of the book , the big battle and the reveal that got me. I never put as much sticky tabs in a book as I did with this one, there were so many good quotes and moments like can we talk about the moment between Nik and Hannah?????? Freaking out right there.

I'm going to be honest with you and say this is the first ever book trilogies / series I've ever finished so i couldn't tell you if it was better than others, but I am damn sure that this would be high on the list. These books gave me the energie and excitment to start reading more then I did before. I am now desperatly looking for anything as good as this, so if you know anything or have any reccomendations, please don't hesitate to let me know.

For now, I am going to cry about the fact that this is over. Thanks for listening to my TED talk. BYE!