January, uber popular author, John Green, tweeted that The Hate U Give by Angie Thomas would become a classic. I believe him.

I can see this book in decades being required reading in schools. I can see multiple editions—special editions, anniversary editions, movie tie-in editions, and hell, maybe even a graphic novel—being released. I can see this book being read by my generation and passed on to the next generation, and then the next. I can see this book lasting, not because it’s timeless (hopefully the struggles addressed in THUG will be no more, as Starr prophesied), but because it’s a flashpoint in American history that shouldn’t be forgotten even if it’s rectified. Angie Thomas’ debut is the kind of transformative and accessible novel that can touch a variety of readers and have long-lasting effects
If you’ve read the blurb, then you know the Black Lives Matter movement inspires this novel. But, The Hate U Give isn’t about a movement. It’s about black lives living, and about black lives loving, and about black lives pursuing happiness and deserving freedom—just like everyone. This novel’s protagonist is sixteen years old, and she lives without an ulterior motive or agenda. Starr is just a girl who experienced a horrific tragedy, and the novel follows her journey through her grief and self-actualizations. I love Starr. I love this book.

It begins with the shooting of Khalil on chapter two. It’s harrowing and devastating, but not shocking for anyone who has been paying attention. Experiencing the effects of that moment from Starr’s perspective is gut wrenching, although, I can foresee some readers feeling numb. Starr goes trough all the stages in a visceral outpouring of grief. Her rage over her friend’s murder is the emotion that steals the show, never leading to traditional acceptance.

Angie Thomas is so damn talented and smart, I’m jealous.

I had so many expectations going into this book, but mainly, I was nervous. I mean, with all the hype it’s impossible not to go into this book with some expectation and my greatest fear regarding THUG was that it would piss me off. I expected the subject matter would be intense and that there would be some moments when I’d want to punch a wall. There were those moments when I was heated–intensely emotional, very angry and also immensely sad.
But, what surprised me most about this book, and why I love it so much, and why I am going to recommend it to all the people, is that it is beyond multidimensional and multifaceted. Honestly, I experienced the gamut of emotions; I mean every single one.
The characters were well done. The writing was fantastic. The story was great. While many novels that carry a specific message sometimes come off seeming too didactic or preachy, this did not. It was flawless. Starr’s story read more like a memoir than fiction, and it revealed so much about contemporary circumstances revolving around race in our country. This is an absolute must read.