This book was simply awesome.

The synopsis of this book is available on goodreads so I might as well skip all that and get right to the good stuff.

This book has awesome world building. The story takes place in three different Londons. Mostly Red London, a place where magic is almost litterally in the air. Than a portion of the story takes place in Grey London, a London that pretty much resembles London as we know it or rather as it should've been around 1819. White London is the place  where all problems arise and are eventually put to rest and eventhough there is some magic, I don't think anybody would like to be caught dead in that place. Black London is mentioned but more as an urban mythe cause it's a place where magic seems to have taken over and has consumed everything in it's wake.

Weird thing is that you, the reader, are always aware of which London you are in. Sights, sounds and just the way our main protagonists navigate through any Particular London make it so that you never get your Londons twisted. 

Our main protaganists, Kell an Antari wizard from Red London and Lila Bard, a wannabe pirate who is essentially a pickpocket from Grey London, are easy to fall in love with. You find out very early on that their hearts are in the right place and that they will go through great lengths for the ones they love. 

I'm a sucker for a book that reads like a movie. I could litteraly smell the rose scented air in Red London. When you entered White London the rose smell would be replaced by an ashy metallic like scent and if that isn't enough to make you feel uneasy, the White London's winter chill and creepy power hungry inhabitants and rulers will probably drive the dagger of uneasiness home. The way some scenes are crafted, makes this a tale that is unfit for the fainthearted because of all the blood that is being spilled and some truly gruesome deaths/murders.

The other characters are not as fleshed out as our main protagonists but you know just enough to determine if they are friend or foe. I never had a dull moment.

This was 4,5 stars easily, guess I will have to pick up the sequel pretty soon.