It was nice, i enjoyed it. Though it wasn't what i expected it to be.

From the synopsis of the book i thought this would be a real stalking jack the ripper kinda vibey, instead it focussed more on the romance, which i am normally not a fan of but how could one ignore the charming thomas creswell? I found myself constantly annotating his flirtatious moments.

Audrey rose on the other hand, not sure about her. I get it, we're in the 19th century where woman have no rights besides staying at home, watching over the children and sowing dresses, but you don't have to complain about it every freaking page, it's good she stands for the rights of women but it is obvious nobody is listening or changing it, i got the message after the first time she talked about it or acted like it. That's just how things we're back then, next time i hopefully will love her more if she puts the woman empowerment on a lower pit instead of every other page.

Besides that i found the gore parts of the book very intriguing, I've always been a big fan of movies like saw etc so this was right up my damn alley. Also always have been very interested in anything serial killer which jack the ripper is no exception.

Loved the ending as well, i did not see it coming until a few chapters before it happened, very well played and audrey brainwashed me so much that i actually believed her theoried even though they were quiet absurd.

One thing i am taking with me from this book is my ever growing love for Thomas, he for sure is now my biggest book crush I've ever had. Here's one of my favorite flirtatious quotes by him;

"So is dissecting the dead prior to breakfast. But i don't scorn you for that unseemly habit. In fact it's rather endearing seeing you up to your elbows in viscera eacht morning. Also, you're quiet welcome for the flower. Do place it on your nightstand and think of me while dressing for bed."

This would for sure make me pass out in front of him. I'm weird, i know.

Anyhow super excited to read hunting prince Dracula when i get my hands on it, can't wait to read more of Thomas and of course also Audrey. Curious to see where their relationship will take them further into the stories. I hope audrey won't be so stubborn next time and just go for the guy cause cmon he's so freaking charismatic and hot.